# PinBallGame

 Abstractive methods

This component requires you to complete the following two tasks. (I) Develop a playable online 3D t pi bowling game with rules similar to a physical ten pin bowling game that can be played by a good number of online players, with potential to scale up for massive online players; (2) Write a thnnal report covering the development details of the game, and your insights on the challenges, solutions, programming languages and skills regarding large-scale programming issues. The purpose of this assignment is to evaluate your capability in evaluating, proposing and implementing solutions for a large scale programming problem, and your deep unders.ding of different object-oriented programming languages and state-of-the-art tools for large scale programming issues. Your development can recycle and extend the materials used in the module workshops. Please note that it still needs significant modification to the provided system design and implementation to meet the requirements. Alternatively, you can opt for implementing your own GUI-based game from scratch addressing the massive online challenges. To meet the minimum requirement, your developed online game should allow at least 100 online players to play at the same time. The detailed technical requirements are detailed below. Please note that you are expected to submit the report on your development addressing these requirementh below, along with all source code and project files of your system. The Playable Online Gantt Similarly to the C., classes Ball, Table, Cushion and Players - designed or restmctured during the workshops - you are required to think carefully about the classes you will design and implement to make a playable online ten pin bowling game suitable for .ge number of players with potential to scale up for massive online players. To complete a playable game, the following classes and efTects must be implemented.

 1. Lanes A lane shows the area for two players to play the game with certain layouts. The online game will have multiple tracks or courses allowing multiple players to pair with and play at the same time. This means that a lane class should be designed and implemented, and your game should support large number of lanes, at least 5 lanes for demonstration. 

2. Balls and pins Add programmatic ball and pin classes to the lanes. This will require the design and implementation of new classes to support the attributes and functionality of a ball/pin. You will then be able to add ball/pin objects to the lanes, implement a method for detecting a ball/pin's collisions and positions, and construct a system for managing balls/pins/scores. Typically, there are one object ball plus ten pins for a lane. Your game should allow 2 players playing in each lane.

3.Players and Scores You should design and implement a ten pin bowling game to accommodate a few players at the same time. This does not need to follow exactly standard ten pin bowling game rules, and may be quite simple. However, it should be turn-based, and players should score points. Again, you should think carefully about a suitable class structure to represent the players and game rules. You should also consider how your game logic code could be extended, and reflect this in your code design. For example, could your game be easily scaled up to support 10,000 players to play at the same time rather than just 10 players? You should also design and implement functionality for displaying the current player(s), players' score(s) and ranking. You can either display the text information in the game window (ideal case), or print text to the console window as a basic/minimal solution. 4. Multiple Computers You should also design and implement functionality allowing game play in multiple computers via a computer network. The scores and ranking of players, even in different locations/computers, should be displayed and updated as well. You should think about how to allow massive players to join the online game and implement this to your game. The above tasks will be evaluated via a software demonstration, where both the functionalities and the source code will be evaluated by two markers during the demonstration.

Mcj_p_fte You should submit a report (I) describing your online ten pin bowling game development in detail, (2) describing the key challenges and your solutions, if your game is re-designed for massive online players e.g. more than one million users at the same time. 

The report should be maximum 8 pages with the font size of 1 Ipt, excluding front cover, references and appendices. The report should clearly structured and include the following sections:

 About your developed artefact 

■ The game. Please describe your game including the rules of your game, how to play the game, and at least one snapshot of your game (approx. 0.5 page) 

■ Design and implementation. Please describe briefly your game design and the implementation of the classes and the key functions you have used in the game, using diagram if necessary (approx I page)

 ■ Implementation. Please include detailed descriptions of the new classes, functions and concepts you have implemented for each of the above 4 requirements including lane/ball-pin/players-scores and multiple computers, with diagram/plots/snapshots of source code if necessary (approx. 4 pages) ■ Memory and scalability. The method you use to cope with memory (e.g. too many detailed objects to be loaded) and scalability (e.g. 1,000 or even more online players at the same time) issues, with diagram/plots/snapshots of source code if necessary (approx. 0.5 page) 

■ Strengths and weaknesses of programming languages in implementing the game. Your own reflective thinking about the strengths and weaknesses of C. programming language, as compared to other development tool(s) such as Python/Java/C#, especially your own experiences in the development of the game (approx. I page).
Challenges and solutions if your game to be scaled up for massive online players 

■ Please list key challenges if your game is scaled up for more than one million online users play at the same time, and propose your solutions to these challenges. Your solutions may not be restricted to only one specific program language or specific platform (approx. 0.75 Pages).
